# Pewlett_Hackard_Analysis

## Analysis
> The purpose of this assignment is to creat several tables with selected information from the database created for Pewlett Hackard. The tables created detail the number of employees that will be retiing in the coming years as well as a seperate table that shows employees who will be retiring that qualify for the mentorship program PH would like to initiate to train new hires. The tables that detail retiring employees include information such as their employee number, name, their most recent title, as well as their hire date. The data was filtered to show only individuals born between 1952 and 1955 who were hired between 1985 and 1988 who still work for the company. The mentorship eligibility table was filtered to include employees born in 1965 and still work at PH.

## Results
> Some of the takeaways from this analysis are: 1. Most of the staff that is retirement eligible are either Senior Engineers or are members of the Senior Staff; these openings will create a larger gap in the experience level of the company then normal and should be higher priotiry to fill. 2. With over 33,000 employees retiring, PH will be left in a difficult position if they do not prepare for the future properly; looking towards the future, early recruiting from schools across the country, and building a road map of how to handle the "Silver Tsunami" will be their keys to success. 3. Only 1,549 of the employees retiring are eligible for the Mentorship Program, meaning there are far fewer employees who can mentor new hires than there are employees leaving for their retirement. This disparity could lead to issues in the future if not handled correctly. 4. Looking at the data, it shows that 33,118 employees out of 300,024 are retiring, in other words over 11% of the staff of PH are near or over the age of 60 and will be retiring within the next eight years or less.  

## Summary
> The number of roles that will need to be filled each year moving forward can easily be determined by writing a query to filter the database for individuals who meet the retirement criteria for the given year that is looked at. By doing this we can see how many of individuals are going to be retiring and how many new employees the company will need to take on to fill the gaps left by those leaving their careers. You could even go sar far as to produce a graphical representation to compare the number of individuals who will be retiring in a given year and compared to other years. As the "Silver Tsunami" progresses, PH will need to keep a close eye on the number of individuals retiring versus the number of individuals they hire.
> As we discussed earlier in this analysis there are only 1,549 mentor eligible employees and there will be 33,118 employees retiring total, doing a little math that is approximately 21 employees retiring for every employee eligible to be a mentor. In short, there are not enough mentors for the incoming employees to get a adequete education by the time the mentors themselves leave. Some ways to solve this would be to widen the criteria for individuals who qualify for the mentorship program; for example looking at people who are still a few years away from retirement. Another method would be to determine how many individuals a single mentor could take on while still providing thorough instruction but not overworking themselves. An extra step would be to plan out the mentor program so that mentors would only be educating individuals who are going into their shared feild.